If we want to represent strings,
there are two ways that we can do that,
Python accepts both single quotes and
double quotes,
if you are Defining a string,
make sure that whatever
type of quote that you use,
make sure that it matches or
you're going to get an error.
I prefer double quotes because if
you have a sentence like this,
is this going to work,
when I enter this into my ripple?
No, it's gonna blow up because Python
thinks that this string has ended here.
So if you're using single quotes and you
have a single quote inside of your string,
you're going to want to escape
it with the backwards slash.
And now Python does the right thing, or
you can just use double quotes and
then you don't have that problem.
Because single quotes can be nested
inside of double quotes without issue and
without escaping,
because Python knows that the match for
this first double quote is this second
double quotes If you have long strings
You can start them with three quotes,
either double or single, and
then you can press enter.
And then to end your very long string,
you wanna use three quotes again.
If we take a look at the string
we'll see that it doesn't
look like this when we print it out,
it's separated by \n,
\n is the symbol for new line,
\t is the symbol for tab.
If we print this out, we'll see that
it looks how we expect it to but
that's not how Python
stores it under the hood.
So printing it out is basically asking for
how it might look like when it's rendered.
Now print is something that
you'll be using a lot,
you can print out strings,
you can print out variables.
And something that I find very
handy in print is that you
can actually pass in
multiple values to print.
And if they're separated by a comma,
the output of print will put
a space in between them, so
I can say print hi and
then a, and it'll print hi 5.
This is just kind of a quick and
handy shortcut when you don't wanna use
an F string,
when you don't wanna format something,
you just wanna print it out
see what it looks like.
I use this all the time, but for
some reason it is not common syntax.
You can also concatenate strings,
just like you added two numbers together,
you can add two strings together.
And you can do that with the plus symbol,
know that you don't wanna use string
concatenation for very large or
very large numbers of strings.
I'm talking like, really, really large
cuz then things start slowing down,
you probably won't run into that
problem for a very long time though.
Now, I showed you F strings
a little bit earlier,
those are the modern way of
formatting Python strings.
So an F string just
starts with the letter F,
and you can put curly braces in here.
And inside of those curly braces, you
can put an expression, so in this case,
I'm going to put the variable
a because I've already defined it.
You want to be mindful though,
I don't have a variable b, so
if I try to do that I'm going to get
an error that says name b is not defined,
kind of looks like we would expect it to,
right?
You can also pass in F
strings into print and
use them like you would regular strings.
They are really great because there
are a few old ways of formatting strings
in python that you might run into that
are not as nice, they are error prone.
How you saw a lot of those errors like
can't concatenate number and string,
F strings take care of that for
you under the hood.
So if you're just learning Python and you
don't have any attachment to the old way
of formatting, reach straight for
this and you will be much, much happier.
Somebody asked, is there an auto
decrement like plus plus and minus minus.
No, I don't believe that there is,
there is a plus equals and a minus equals.
If you want to work with some of the
methods I showed you on strings earlier,
there are some examples of that on
the course website that I won't dive into.
If you want to, I'll just show
you an example of one though,
if you want to replace characters
like if I have a name = Nina,
if I wanted to call a method on this, I
would just use the variable name and dot.
And in this case I can call replace and
I would replace,
and let's see, and that returns Zina.
You can see here though that
the original string was not modified,
it's because strings in
Python can't be changed.
So if you want to do
something with this string,
you're going to have to
assign it to a new variable.
So I could say, z_name=name.replace, oops,
and see, and z,
if I take a look in that variable,
I've now saved the value
of running this function.
Are there any other quick questions
before I move on to lists?
>> I read somewhere that
strings are immutable in
Python
>> Right
>> When would you replace the N with
the C?
>> So if you saw this code right here,
running name.replaced
returned in new string.
And if I took a look at
my name variable here,
you will see that the value was not
changed, I had to save the result
of name.replace to a different
variable before I was able to save it.
So, the value in named did not change and
we can verify that one more time.
So the question was,
when you're using F strings,
if you want to use curly braces in
your output, how would you do that?
I believe that you can escape
them just like you would with
other special characters by putting
a backslash in front of them.
F string, this might need a double
backslash, and if this doesn't work,
I would have to look it up.
Yeah, I'm not sure I would
have to look that up,
I don't think I've never done this before,
so it's a great question.
>> What if we want to declare
a variable with a data type, but
we don't mention its value?
Like for example, a of type string but
we don't give it any value.
>> So, to have a variable that
doesn't have a value you can just
use the non keyword
>> As the datatype string.
>> It doesn't have a data type, so
if we look at the type of a we'll see
that the type is actually none type.
So this symbolizes no or
nothing, with Python you don't
have to declare types of
variables before you declare them.